so Jacob went on his way and the angels
of God met him when Jacob saw them he
said this is God's camp and he called
the name of that place maiya name then
Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau
his brother in the land of Seir the
country of Edom and he commanded them
speak thus to my lord Esau thus your
servant Jacob says I have dwelt with
Laban and stayed there until now I have
oxen donkeys flocks and male and female
servants and I have sent to tell my Lord
that I may find favor in your sight
then the messengers returned to Jacob
we came to your brother Esau and he also
is coming to meet you and 400 men are
with him so Jacob was greatly afraid and
distressed and he divided the people
that were with him and the flocks and
herds and camels into two companies if
Esau comes to the one company and
attacks it than the other company which
is left will escape oh god of my father
Abraham and god of my father Isaac the
Lord who said to me return to your
country and to your family and I will
deal well with you I am not worthy of
the least of all the mercies and of all
the truth which you have shown your
servant for I crossed over this Jordan
with my staff and now I have become two
companies deliver me I pray from the
hand of my brother from the hand of Esau
for I fear him lest he come and attack
me the mother with the children for you
said I will surely treat you well and
make your descendants as the sand of the
sea which cannot be numbered for
multitude so he lodged there that same
night and took what came to his hand as
a present for Esau his brother
two hundred female goats and twenty male
goats two hundred ewes and twenty Rams
thirty milk camels were their coats
forty cows and ten bulls twenty female
donkeys and ten folds then he delivered
them to the hand of his servants every
drove by itself and said to his servants
pass over before me and put some
distance between successive droves and
he commanded the first one when II saw
my brother meets you and asks you saying
to whom do you belong and where are you
going
whose are these in front of you then you
shall say they are your servant Jacobs
it is a present sent to my lord Esau and
behold he also is behind us
so he commanded the second the third and
all who followed the droves in this
manner you shall speak to Esau when you
find him and also say behold your
servant Jacob is behind us I will
appease him with the present that goes
before me and afterward I will see his
face perhaps he will accept me so the
present went on over before him
but he himself lodged that night in the
camp and he arose that night and took
his two wives his two female servants
and his eleven sons and crossed over the
ford of jeddak he took them sent them
over the brook and sent over what he had
then Jacob was left alone and a man
wrestled with him until the breaking of
day when he drove it he did not prevail
against me he touched the socket of his
hip and the socket of Jacob's hip was
out of and he said let me go for the day
breaks I will not let you go unless you
bless me what is your name
Jacob your name shall no longer be
called Jacob but Israel for you have
struggled with God and with men and have
prevailed
tell me your name my prey
why is it did you ask about my name and
he blessed him there so Jacob called the
name of the place Peniel for I have seen
God face to face that my life is
preserved just as he crossed over Penuel
the Sun rose on him and he limped on his
hip therefore to this day the children
of Israel do not eat the muscle that
shrank which is on the hip socket
because he touched the socket of Jacob's
hip in the muscle the track
[Music]
you